김신정외

health locus of control scale, Journal of consult Clinic Psychology, 46(6), 1197.

Locus of Control and Eating behavior of Obese Middle School Girls

Kim, Shin-Jeong¹) · Kim, Sook-Young²) · Moon, Sun-Young³) · Gu, Hyun-Kyung⁴) · Choi, Yong-Hee⁵)

1) Department of Nursing Science, Hallym University, 2) Seoul Womens' College of Nursing 3) Department of Nursing, ShinHeung College, 4) School Nurse, GeumHo Middle school, 5) School Nurse, SeokKwan High school

Purpose: The purpose of this study was to investigate the relationship between health locus of control(HLOC) and eating behavior in obese middle school girls.

Method: The sample consisted of 170 obese middle school girls in Seoul.

Result:
1. The average scores of HLOC were HLOC-Internal ; 4.11, HLOC-External ; 2.45, HLOC-Chance ; 2.09.
2. The average scores of eating behavior factors were Disinhibition ; 2.69, Dietary Restraint ; 2.67, Hunger ; 2.55.
3. The HLOC-Internal and eating behavior(dietary restraint and hunger) were correlated positively. The HLOC-Chance and disinhibition was correlated positively. But HLOC-Chance and dietary restraint was correlated negatively. The HLOC-External and eating behavior(dietary restraint, disinhibition and hunger) were correlated positively.
4. There was not a significant difference in HLOC depending on the demographic characteristics(grade, degree of obesity, father & mother's body shape, existence of obese sibling). There were significant differences in HLOC-Internal and HLOC-External according to thinking about oneself who is obese or not.
5. There was not a significant difference in eating behavior depending on the demographic characteristics(grade, degree of obesity, father & mother's body shape, existence of obese sibling, perception of oneself as a obese).

Conclusion: This study has shown a correlation between HLOC and eating behavior. As a result of these findings, clinical and school nurses should be involved in management and counselling of obese girls concerning individual health locus of control and eating behavior.

Key words : Locus of control, Eating behavior, Middle school girls

• Address reprint requests to : Kim, Shin-Jeong
Department of Nursing, Hallym University
1, Okchun-dong, Chunchon, Kwangwon-do 200-702, Korea
Tel: +82-33-248-2721 Fax: +82-33-248-2734 E-mail: kimsj@hallym.ac.kr

130