A study on the Regeneration of Idle Factories in Incheon Metropolitan City through the Determinant Factors of the Place

Changwoo Chae
First Author. Master Degree Course of Graduate School, Dept. of Architecture, Incheon National University
Dongyeon Seo
Corresponding Author. Professor, Division of Architecture and Urban Design, Incheon National University

(Background and Purpose) As factories have been converted into idle buildings, they have begun to play a major role in the revitalization of urban space. The purpose of this study is to derive implications that can be considered in the process of idle factories become a base for regeneration with the Idea of the place. There are 6 sites of idle factories which were 3 regenerated and 3 remained, and the study analyzed 3 regenerated sites. In conclusion, this analysis confirmed the implications for future focus. (Method) The determinant factors of the place are set up in the classification of the physical environment, utilization, and sense by re-extracting the factors through literature review in the field such as place marketing and placemaking based on the theoretical definition of the place. The physical environment was divided into a broad context such as surrounding location and traffic infrastructure and the micro context of factory structures. The utilization is a program that includes the meaning formed from human/cultural factors and the interaction between space and human beings. Finally applied these factors to regenerated idle factories and identified characteristics of those places. (Results) The idle factories regenerated in Incheon Metropolitan City have commonalities in that they are located in the factory area with good traffic accessibility when they look at the wide-area physical environment, but there is a difference in the characteristics of the surrounding facilities that can be culturally linked to the residential area with the idle factories. In a factory structures environment factors, 3 sites have a common condition which as preserving the existing structures or facilities and make a contrast with new materials of an extension and modification part. In the activity factors, a program of the idle factories is converted to cultural commercial facilities such as cafes and exhibitions. That makes commonalities of regeneration result and interaction with the surrounding context to be weak. (Conclusions) The determinant factors of place give uniqueness through mutual relations. Currently, the strategy to preserve the structure of the factory as much as possible and a converted program like a cultural commercial space create some homogeneity in three idle spaces with different broad contexts. Although they are actively used as very attractive spaces, There is a weakness in identity from other regenerated factories. If they using physical environment factors of the broader context more actively, they could be an anchor facility for the regeneration of this area.

Keywords Idle factory, Regeneration, Place, Physical environment factor, Utilization factor
Received Oct. 29. 2019 Reviewed Nov. 08. 2019 Accepted Dec. 20. 2019
ISSN 1976-4405 www.kisd.or.kr
10.35216/kisd.2019.14.7.281

Journal of the Korea Institute of Spatial Design, Vol.14 No.7 281