Notes
Bull. Korean Chem. Soc. 2002, Vol. 23, No. 1 145

HSO₄⁻ Anion Selective Urea Calix[4]diquinone Receptor

Sung Ok Kang, Jung Min Oh, Yong Sik Yang, Jong Chul Chun, Seungwon Jeon,* and Kye Chun Nam*

Department of Chemistry and Institute of Basic Science, Chonnam National University, Kwangju 500-757, Korea
Received November 9, 2001

Keywords: Anion receptor, Urea derivative, Calixquinone, Redox-switchable ligand.

Introduction

The various macrocyclic compounds such as crown ether and calixarene¹⁻³ containing redox-active centers have been utilized for the development of advancing chemical sensor technology. Several excellent quinone and anthraquinone based redox-switchable ligands for cations were developed by Gokel and Echegoyen.⁴⁻⁶ But quinone based redox-switchable hosts for anions were not reported at all until recently. The urea and thiourea groups have been used in the development of neutral receptors, because the hydrogen bond is directional in character and orientation of the hydrogen bond donors can provide the selective anion recognition. Recently we reported⁷ a lower rim urea derivative of calix[4]diquinone for the first time, which showed a high selectivity for HSO₄⁻. Also the upper rim urea derivative⁸ of calix[4]diquinone was synthesized, which showed a high selectivity with H₂PO₄⁻ over CH₃CO₂⁻, Cl⁻ and HSO₄⁻.

In order to develop the series of anion redox receptors, here we report the calix[4]diquinone receptor 4 having two urea moieties in farther distance from quinone and investigated the complexation behavior with anions. This novel anion receptor 4 binds anions through hydrogen bonding and also shows high selectivity for HSO₄⁻ over H₂PO₄⁻, Cl⁻ and CH₃CO₂⁻.

Results and Discussion

By taking advantage of a selective 1,3-alkylation, 1,3-bis(cyanopropyl)oxycalix[4]arene 1 was prepared by the reaction of p-t-butylcalix[4]arene and 4-bromobutyronitrile in the presence of K₂CO₃.⁹ Reduction with LiAlH₄ yielded the corresponding aminocalix[4]arene 2, which was transformed into urea derivative 3 when treated with phenylisocyanate. Finally reaction of calixarene 3 with TTFA (thallium trifluoroacetate) in trifluoroacetic acid afforded the urea derivative calix[4]diquinone 4 in 46% yield (Scheme 1). The ¹H NMR spectrum of 4 showed a pair of doublets at δ 4.20 and 3.10 for the bridge methylene protons and a singlet and a triplets at δ 7.86 and 6.34 for the four urea N-H protons. Four quinone protons signal appeared at δ 6.71 as a singlet. The ¹³C NMR spectrum of 4 indicated that 4 existed as a cone based on the bridge carbon signal at δ 30.6.¹⁰

The anion coordination properties were investigated by the proton NMR titration in CDCl₃ solution in the presence of various anions such as tetrabutylammonium (TBA) chloride, bromide, dihydrogen phosphate, hydrogen sulfate, and acetate. In proton NMR experiments a large downfield shift of a singlet NH proton resonance at δ 7.86 was observed upon addition of TBA hydrogen sulfate to host 4 solution as shown in Figure 1 upon addition of 1 equivalent TBA HSO₄⁻. Further addition of HSO₄⁻ caused an only slight downfield shift. Any further significant change was not observed after one equivalent of TBA HSO₄⁻, suggesting that 4 complexed with hydrogen sulfate ion 1:1 solution stoichiometry. Large chemical shift change of the NH protons in the presence of anion suggests that the anions bind the urea protons directly. The association constants of the various anions to the receptors are obtained from the resulting titration curves using EQ-NMR¹¹ and these values are presented in Table 1.

[그림: 구조식 5]

A high selectivity for HSO₄⁻ was observed for the urea derivative of calix[4]diquinone 4. The influence of the hydrogen bond in 4 with HSO₄⁻ could be a major factor, comparing the K values of 4 with those of the corresponding urea derivative 5⁹ which exhibited a high selectivity for spherical anions, in the order Cl⁻ > Br⁻ > I⁻, and very weak binding with tetrahedral HSO₄⁻ and H₂PO₄⁻. The relatively low affinity toward HSO₄⁻ compared with previous urea derivative⁷ can be attributed to the relatively long distance between quinone oxygen and urea N-H proton, which could play a significant role as the additional binding. The receptor 3 also exhibits remarkable thermodynamic stability for HSO₄⁻ as shown in Table 1. The partial ¹H NMR spectra of 3

*Corresponding Author. e-mail of K.C. Nam: kcnam@chonnam.ac.kr