한국심리학회지 : 실험

A form has a number of features: Some local features are mutually exclusive parts like every line of a letter and others are global features like configuration, symmetry and vertex. A global feature can thus be quickly distinguished from a local feature. Which feature is, then, more important in form perception? Gestalt psychologists proposed that perception of the whole precedes and guides that of parts (e.g., Arnheim, 1986). However, many researchers following constructivism have tried to explain perception of the whole by perception of its parts (e.g., Neisser, 1967). These two approaches seem to be in conflict at least with respect to the time course of perception.

Navon (1977) used compound stimuli to explore which feature, global or local, would be processed earlier than the other. Global letters were composed of local letters, and they could be congruent or incongruent with each other. For example, a global ‘H’ or ‘S’ was made by arranging either many local ‘H’s or many local ‘S’s (see Figure 1 for similar examples). While incongruent global identities slowed reaction times when judging local identities of compound letters (i.e., a kind of Stroop interference), local identities had no such effect when judging global identities. Navon argued for a principle of global precedence that global processing always precedes local processing.

Subsequent studies have showed that global precedence is constrained by many perceptual conditions like stimulus size, sparsity of local letters, stimulus quality, etc (e.g., Hoffman, 1980; Kinchla, Solis Macias, & Hoffman, 1983; Martin, 1979; Park & Kim, 1991, for a review). The mechanism of global precedence, however, has not been clearly revealed. Paquet and Merikle (1988) proposed a hypothesis that whereas global features are preattentively processed, local features are processed by focal attention. Navon (1991) reported a study that the advantage of global processing was not diminished by an enhanced local processing, thus indicating that global precedence is a principle based on perceptual mechanism.

However, other studies considered global precedence as an attentional phenomenon. Miller (1981) suggested on the basis of an analysis of a cumulative probability density function of detection time that global precedence arose from the tendency that people perceived the whole object as a unit by giving more attention to a global than to a local feature. Kim (1990) and Park (1986) found that global influence became reduced in local judgment, as a presentation probability of global information to be ignored increased. They concluded that global processing became automatized in proportion to its presentation probability, requiring less attention, so global information of high probability became rather easily ignored (Logan & Zbrodoff, 1979). Ward (1982) found a level-readiness effect whereby processing was faster at a given level

- 170 -