ChangHo Park • Jung-Oh Kim / Attention Shift to Global and Local Level of a Form Depends upon Stimulus Set

if previous processing had been at that level.” (p.562) These studies indicate that global precedence is not based on a perceptual mechanism, and global precedence or its opposite, local precedence, can be modulated by attention. Unfortunately, however, this interpretation has not been subject to any direct manipulation of attention.

In order to argue for the attentional mechanism underlying global or local precedence, it is necessary to explicate how attention is involved in processing of global or local features of compound stimulus. Stoffer (1993) manipulated cue validity of the global and the local level and measured reaction time with varying stimulus-onset-asynchrony (SOAs) between pre-cue and compound stimulus. He concluded “attentional zooming to the local level needs more time than does zooming to the global level” (p. 14). Likewise, Robertson, Egly, Lamb, and Kerth (1993) observed validity effects of both global and local cues. However, the global identities and the local identities employed in these studies were from different stimulus sets, so precedence could not be tested in the way Navon (1977) did using congruent and incongruent identities between the two levels of compound stimuli. Congruity of compound stimuli needs to be manipulated in order to make the global and the local level compete and to reveal the relative superiority of the one to the other. Therefore, we introduce congruity in studying attention

shift to the global or the local level. Because attention and perception are inseparably related, it would be reasonable to assume that the level more quickly attended to should be the one earlier processed. To explore which level can be quickly attended to, it is necessary to have participants process the information of a level unpredictably indicated. Another aspect of attentional processing, though interesting, has not been investigated yet. It is how attention does shift from the global to the local level or from the local to the global level in a compound stimulus. For this, it may be necessary to have participants shift their attention from the global to the local level or in the opposite direction.

Concerning global and/or local precedence, we cannot overemphasize the importance of stimulus property. As earlier noted, precedence was constrained by a variety of stimulus properties. Another stimulus property not mentioned yet regards the relationship between the global and the local level. For example, Pomerantz (1983) distinguished a P type from a N type among compound stimuli. The P (place) type is a compound stimulus where local stimuli hold their places without changing a global configuration. Most stimuli used in the precedence research belong to this type, as in the stimuli of Figure 1. The N (nature) type is the one where global configuration is greatly changed by the nature of local stimuli. For this type, Pomerantz employed an arrow and a triangle as global levels, and

- 171 -