쿠시마 야요이(Kusama Yayoi)의 푸르츠 바스켓(Fruit Basket) 연작을 응용한 패션디자인 개발

The Fashion Design Development Applying the Yayoi Kusama’s Fruits Basket Series

Jang, Kyung Eun · Joo, Bo Lim+

Master, Dept. of Fashion Design, graduate school of design, Ewha Womans University
Associate Professor, Dept. of Fashion Design, graduate school of design, Ewha Womans University

Abstract

Yayoi Kusama is one of the most renowned contemporary visual artists creating dynamic and experimental artworks covering a wide range of genres from fine art to film, fashion design and literature, etc. while transcending her conditions of mental illness through art. The purpose of this research lies in enhancing the artistic value of fashion and proposing a new possibilities of expression by employing the formality of painting in the field of fashion design through the laser cutting technique. The conclusions from this study are as follows. First, an infinitely appearing sequence of dots and nets was drawn from the works of Yayoi Kusama through the analysis of formal qualities and they were appropriate to apply to clothes in various ways as designed as a new motif. Second, it was verified that the laser cutting technique which was used as the primary method is suitable for maximizing the visual effect in applying the motif as it cuts in great detail and in clear cut. Third, the stark contrast of colors which is also another feature of Yayoi Kusama’s art works was applied to the fashion design as a result of limiting the palettes to two colors. Fourth, it was easy to form a silhouette of the work by designing with the Neoprene material, and it allowed to represent the artistic element of Yayoi Kusama’s art works for its three dimensionality and thickness. Fifth, through unique design, it was possible to confirm the infinite design possibility of dots and nets patterns which are contemporary and able to express the aesthetic values inherent in them.

Keyword : Kusama Yayoi, Kusama Yayoi’s Fruits Basket, laser cutting technique, fashion design development

- 119 -