(Yang et al., 2006). In addition, the MTO facility faces the problem of determining when to replenish component under setup cost and Erlang lead time process.

Many research papers have investigated whether it is the lead time variance or the mean lead time that is more important in supply chain management. Based on a normal approximation, Eppen and Martin(1988) reported that reducing lead time variability decreases the reorder point and safety stock. Kim et al.(2004) considered a make-to-stock (MTS) system with Erlang lead time, constant demand rate, and (s,Q) policy and showed that the increase in cost due to stochastic lead time is linear in its standard deviation. Chopra et al.(2004) reported that given some service levels, decreasing mean lead time is the right lever to cut inventories, not reducing lead time variability, which is contradictory to the mainstream research results that the effect of the mean lead time on total inventory cost is usually insignificant, as compared with the variance. In this paper, we numerically show that the efforts of reducing both lead time variability and mean lead time are essential for the cost reduction. We also investigate the impact of lead time variability on the system cost and the replenishment order quantity.

The primary goal of this paper is (i) to present the formulation of an appropriate model for managing inventory under Erlang lead time and setup cost, (ii) to investigate the structure of an optimal policy and examine the impact of lead time variability on the optimal policy and the optimal average cost, and (iii) to perform numerical experiment to provide better managerial insights on the structure of the optimal policy.

Our model is similar to the MTO inventory-production system with a dynamic inventory control. He and Jewkes(2000) presented order-up-to policies and showed that the order size is the economic order quantity. He et al. (2002) studied a policy with varying order quantity according to the backorder level. Berman and Kim(1999) characterized an optimal policy as a threshold function of outstanding customer orders when the admission control is based on a threshold. The above references assume zero lead times and thus inventory is replenished when inventory is empty. Kim(2005) extended Berman and Kim (1999) by considering an exponential lead time process.

Our model also has a common feature with the literature that coordinates customer admission and inventory control under multiple customer classes. Using the framework of Markov decision problem, the references characterize the optimal admission and inventory control policy. Ha(1997a) considered a single product MTS system with lost sales. The systems with backordering were covered in Ha(1997b) and in de Vericourt et al.(2002). Benjaafar and ElHafsi(2006) considered a