상담학연구
Korean Journal of Counseling
2011, Vol. 12, No. 4, 1193-1210

The Development and Evaluation of Relationships Enhancement Program for Premarital Couples - PREPARE based tool -

Kim, Hye-Suk
Jeju University

Lee, Eun-Jeong
Jeju University

This study is purport to develop a group education program based on GT( Growing Together) method to improve relationships between couples who are to be married developing, enforcing their potential capabilities and in doing so, the changes in the group of participants and each individuals before and after program applied has been analysed. The program has been processed with participants consisting of 6 couples with the program applied and other 6 control groups without the program. 11criteria includes the level of expectation for marriage, personalities, communication, conflict-solving, finance-management, leisure activity, family/friends, attitude towards sex, children/nurturing, role- relationship and religious faith and so on has been tested before the initial ttige of the program and at the end of the ttige, the sixth ttige, for quantitative research the tti qualitative ole has been conducted based on summarized conversation collected during the program, evaluation of each ttige of the program and overall appraisal as to the program. There has been improvements found in the participants' relationship after the program called GT( Growing together to become a healthy couple) has been conducted. The quantitative implications of the program can be summarized as follows. First, the level of expectation towards marriage of the group with the program applied has increased more than that of the control group. Hence, this can indicate a positive implication of the program on the level of expectation towards marriage. Second, the changes in 9 area, other than financial management, including personality, communication, conflict-solving, leisure activity, family/friend, attitude towards sex, children /nurturing, role-relationship, religious faith has been found positive in the group with the program. Therefore, it can be seen as that the program has helped couples grow together and it has positive implications. The results of the qualitative analyse are as follows. First, the couples now shares intimacy between each others as each of them has studied as to their partners and the level of expectation towards marriage has increased as the trust and intimacy between each others has become better than before. Second, each partners have become more understandable as to their partners as they have expressed dissatisfaction against their partners and they have started to present ts more affections to their partners and become more generous as to each others as they have found more about their partners' personality, emotion and attitudes. In addition, the communication between couples has been improved as such an example showed that they have realized the importance of conversation and leisure activity as they have presented their hidden complaints and they wanted to take part in the program in more depth. Third, there has been progresses in conflict solving that each partners tried to sympathize each other to solve conflicts more constructively using expression techniques rather than depend the solving process on emotion Fourth, there has been improvements in their understanding as to their partners' family, friends, attitude towards sex and religious faith.

Key words : premarital couples, Relationships Enhancement Program for Premarital Couples, realistic expectations of marriage

- 1210 -

www.kci.go.kr