ChangHo Park • Jung-Oh Kim / Attention Shift to Global and Local Level of a Form Depends upon Stimulus Set

Experiment 1, the feature and the dimension set showed similar patterns of results, except that more Stroop interference was observed in the dimension set than in the feature set. But the analysis of inter-trial state transition showed modes of attention shift dependent upon the type of stimulus set. Shift of level in the feature set produced longer RT than did no shift when there was no shift of response, while there was no effect of level shift in the dimension set. In Experiment 2, participants in the succeeding judgment condition were required to shift attention from either level of the preceding stimulus. Attention shift to the local was easier than shift to the global in the feature set, and this relation was reversed in the dimension set. A trend analysis of RT as a function of SOA also showed that stimuli of the dimension set could be attended to faster and longer than those of the feature set.

The results of the present study show what has been called global precedence is neither a perceptual principle nor a general phenomenon. In view of dynamics of attention, the local level has superiority over the global level in the feature set, and the global level over the local level in the dimension set. This indicates that the type of stimulus set should be counted as an important factor in precedence research. Stimulus structure as defined and made distinct in terms of stimulus set can have an effect on how a compound stimulus attracts attention and how its global and local level will be processed. Navon and Norman (1983) argued global precedence would be still observed if eccentricity of the global and local level were equal, using compound stimuli with local letters only in the margin (see Park, 2003, against their argument). When precedence is interpreted in this way, precedence will give us little implication about form perception. How many things can you imagine without their interiors? Though the eccentricity requirement suggested by Navon and Norman (1983) was not realized in the feature set of the present study, type of stimulus set was found to be another significant constraint of precedence.

Could it be possible to interpret the effect of stimulus set type in another way? Since the feature set stimuli look more complex than the dimension set stimuli, you might infer that precedence or superiority is affected by stimulus complexity.1) Although global precedence was observed with feature set consisting of ‘→’ and ‘↓’ stimuli (Kim, 1990), many feature sets have produced local precedence (Kim, 1990; Park, 1986). In addition, a dimension set having relatively complex pattern like compound arrows produced global precedence (Park, 1986). Unfortunately, there was no such study that manipulated stimulus set type and stimulus

1) This hypothesis, once treated by Kim (1990), was suggested by a reviewer.