global or a local level of two compound stimuli presented in sequence. They were told about which level of the first stimulus and which level of the second stimulus to be judged. He found that they could judge faster when the should-be-judged level of the second stimulus was the same as the level of the first stimulus which they have judged. This result might be caused by the fact that the order of level judgment was fixed through an experimental block. The level to be attended in the current experiment was randomly varied, so that there was a shift or no shift of attention levels trial by trial. The effect of level shift on performance would be examined in a later part of Experiment 1.

Method

Participants Twelve undergraduate and graduate students of psychology of department at the Seoul National University participated in this experiment. Their visual acuity was normal or corrected to normal.

Apparatus and stimuli The experiment was conducted in a little dimly illuminated room. An IBM-compatible PC and a monitor (amber colored) with 720 x 348 pixel resolution were used for stimulus presentation, measurement of reaction time, and procedure control. Each compound pattern was based on a 4 x 5 matrix of small letters. A small letter and a compound pattern had a scale of 9 x 11 mm and 42 x 62 mm in size, respectively. A circle with a diameter of 2.5 cm was used as a fixation. Each line had a thickness of 1 pixel. The display screen was placed at 60~75 cm away from a participant. The visual angle was 4.01~3.21(W) x 5.92~4.73(H) in degree for a large pattern.

Procedure A circle was presented for 300 msec at the center of the screen, followed by a compound pattern. One of two sound cues was presented 100 msec earlier than, or simultaneously with, or 100 msec later than the presentation of a compound pattern. The sound cues had a duration of 100 msec and two levels of tone (1320 and 440 Hz). Participants were instructed to identify a small letter on a high tone and a large letter on a low tone. The compound pattern was presented till they pressed a response key. Participants were instructed to judge whether the identity of the cued level was either ‘ㄱ’ or ‘ㄴ’ in the feature set condition, or either ‘ㄱ’ or ‘ㄴ’ in the dimension set condition. Five practice blocks of 40 trials, and 3 main experimental blocks of 64 trials were run with each participant. Three levels of SOA between the sound cue and visual pattern were manipulated between blocks. Attention levels and target identities were counterbalanced. There was about 3 sec interval between trials. Reaction time (i.e., RT) was measured from the presentation of a compound pattern to the press