in excess of twenty represent superfluous diversification. (Some examples of these prescriptions are listed in Appendix 1.) Solnik’s later research (1993) on the superiority of dynamic allocation strategies in international portfolios did not alter the basic findings nor the prescription.

UPDATED RESULTS

As an empirical basis for our argument that the Solnik results need interpreting more carefully, monthly stock returns from 1988-92 (including dividends) for the stocks of the largest 500 companies (in terms of market value) in each of Japan, UK and USA were collected and analyzed.⁴ For an investor in Japan or UK or USA, domestic portfolios were constructed consisting of from 1 to 100 stocks, with each stock in each portfolio being randomly selected to form equally-weighted portfolios. Then, each size portfolio is randomly constructed 500 times. To replicate the standard textbook format for the presentation of results, the vertical axis in Figure 1 representing the average risk of the portfolio is scaled so that 100% represents the average risk (the average standard deviation) on a one-stock portfolio in each nation. All three domestic curves based on our updated sample exhibit the Solnik and Evans/Archer shape; each curve shows the rapid decline and the early leveling off of portfolio risk as the number of stocks in the portfolio increases. This shape has led to the conclusions (some of which are listed in Appendix 1) that as low as five stocks but no more than twenty stocks are required to achieve simple portfolio diversification so that only systematic risk remains in the portfolio.

Using the data underlying Figure 1, then, for example, in the USA, the investor already holding twenty US stocks would only reduce average portfolio risk another 4.8% by adding fifty stocks; in the UK, the investor would see a decline in average portfolio risk of only 3.0%. In strong contrast, the investor inside Japan would see average risk decline by 32.6% on the increase from twenty to seventy Japanese stocks. The different levels of the three domestic curves in Figure 1 and the marked difference between the UK/US reduction versus the Japanese reduction in going from twenty to seventy stocks reflect the differing correlations⁵ in our sample period between stock returns inside each domestic market, as shown in Table 1.

Table 1
Average Correlation Coefficient

| Japanese Stocks | 0.018 |
| USA Stocks | 0.260 |
| UK Stocks | 0.380 |

Because the correlation coefficient for Japan is so much smaller that those for the other two nations and therefore complicates the conclusions, we abandon the textbook format for Figure 1 and switch to absolute levels of portfolio risk. Thus Figure 2 uses identical data as Figure 1 but the vertical axis shows actual average standard deviation of portfolio risk rather than standardized portfolio risk. The change in format brings out another strong difference for Japan versus UK/USA. Thus, while the level of average portfolio risk in the UK starts above that of the USA and remains consistently above the USA (reflecting higher risk in the UK but with a not dissimilar correlation coefficient), note that average portfolio risk in Japan starts markedly above the other two nations (11.375% versus 9.731% and 7.6902% at the one stock size) but very quickly plunges through the curves for the other two nations - because of the near zero correlation coefficient - so that at the seventy stock size the average risk in Japan is 2.0034% versus 5.9976% and 3.9589% for UK and USA, respectively.

At this point it is advisable to state our argument for the invalidity of the widespread current prescriptions on portfolio size. After that section, the article then looks at the fully hedged global portfolio. However, after discussing the fully hedged global portfolio, the higher initial portfolio risk in Japan combined with the lower correlation coefficient among domestic stocks in Japan means that it is preferable to treat investors in each country separately when it comes to revising recommendations on portfolio size. First however, it is important to explain what we believe is the critical flaw in current recommendations on portfolio size (see also Newbould and Poon (1993, 1996)).

RISK AND THE INDIVIDUAL INVESTOR

The Solnik curves are averages of up to sixty-five portfolios of any particular stock size. Following this lead, our results in Figures 1 and 2 are averages of 500 portfolios at each stock size. Thus, both Solnik’s and our comments about the percentage points of risk reduction achieved by adding fifty stocks are based solely on average risk reduction. Because all the curves (his and ours) show the portfolio risk as average risk based upon very large numbers of portfolios at each stock size, we doubt the wisdom of using these averages to apply to an individual investor because there is huge variation underlying each average. Hence our basic contention is that it is logically invalid (and legally dangerous?) to recommend to an individual investor that she build her single portfolio - either domestic, global, hedged or unhedged - as though the results of that single portfolio will replicate the risk behavior shown in the standard textbook figures. Given that an individual investor has only a single portfolio, the risk on that portfolio is determined by the eight exact stocks in that portfolio, not by the average of 500 eight-stock portfolios drawn

14
GLOBAL BUSINESS AND FINANCE REVIEW SPRING 1997